Hello. Today is sunday the 05.04.26. On tuesday i have an exam in Intro to Applied Computer Science.
These are some of my prep notes and ideas.

So, lets begin with a simple Problem from a practise Exam. The problem says to define matrix-vector multiplication as a function in python, and check for reasonable errors. We assume that a vector is a list of intergers, and a matrix as a list of lists of integers, the vector representing in this case a list of column vectors, not rows. Now, we know from linear algebra, that a vector and a matrix can only be multiplied together, if the length of the column vector is the same as the width of the matrix. Otherwise, the length of the matrix is up to choice. Here is an outlook on the general first steps: (I do attempt to make reasonable formating choices)

def matrix_vektor_produkt(W:list[list[int]], x:list[int]) -> list[int]:
  if not isinstance(x, list):
    raise TypeError("Vector is not a list")
  if not isinstance(W, list):
    raise TypeError("Matrix not a list")
  for collumn in W:
    if not isinstance(collumn, list):
      rasie TypeError("Matrix not a list of lists")
  for collumn in W:
    if len(collumn) != len(W[0]):
      raise ValueError("Matrix not defined")
  if len(W) != len(x):
    raise ValueError("Not corresponding dimensions")
    
Now we can start with the first steps of the actual function. The function is supposed to return the corresponding result of the multiplication. The simplest way to compute the calculation is through the following. We compute the scalar product of each collumn with its corresponding vector member, and then add all the resulting collums together. We can write it out as follows: (important note, vector addition is defined is python only as concatenation of lists, not in the mathematical sense)

result = [0] * len(W[0])
for i in range(len(W)):
    for j in range(len(x)):
        result[i] += W[i][j] * x[j]
  return result

And our problem is finished. The complexity of this calculation is O(mn), where m and n are the matrix dimensions. This complexity however, is unavoidable. 


Problem 2:
In another problem, we are tasked with writing a function that determines the heigth of a binary tree. Another way of understadning the height, is the maximal depth of any node. We must also use pattern matching from the newest python and a recursive defenition. We are presented with the following dataclass for our binary trees. 

@dataclass
class Node [T]:
  index : int # 0 <= index < n
  left : " BDD[T]"
  right : "BDD[T]"

@dataclass
class Leaf [T]:
  value : T
type BDD [T] = Node [T] | Leaf [T]

In other words, the binary trees are defined as such: For every node, there must be some number, int, marking it, and then a node has a left and a right subtree. That subtree is either a node or a leaf. Encountering this type of strange defenition, is for a math major, a bit unusual because it is as though they are defining each other in circles, nodes, leafs and trees. However, in this context, it actually works, because we do not actually care about the objects themselves, only how they relate to one another. The relationship is inad of itself the key structure. The same applies to the function we now will define. We define our function such that the height of just the single leaf is 0. However, if we have a node, then we increase by one, and then take the max heigth of the left and right subtree. 

def heigth(Tree:BDD[T]) -> int:
  match Tree:
    case Leaf(_):
      return 0
    case Node(_,left, right):
      return max(heigth(BDD.left), heigth(BDD.right)) + 1


    
  
    
  
